okay what we're going to do now is show
you the router plate in action and as
we've said previously the track system
coupled with the router what it does
exceptionally well is it does straight
line routing so if we wanted to cut a
groove in the in the edge of this a
rabbet so we could recess in the back
trying to do that freehand or with any
kind of other guy it can be difficult
dedos right on down the line so what
we've done here is we've kept the
quarter-inch bit in there and there's a
couple notches on the side and what
those notches do is they line you
directly up with the router bit so it
takes the guesswork out of where's the
bit so what we can do is simply take and
bring this forward and just Center the
edge of the board up and those notches
if you want a half a cut or in this case
we want the full quarter inch so what
we're going to do is we're going to come
in here and go right out to the edge now
the track system is designed to stick in
place and it does that well with a saw
because your pressure is down however
with a router you've got some down
pressure and you've got a lot of side
pressure so what we have done is we have
introduced a toggle clamps system and
how this works is really very simple
this slides into the bottom and so you
bring this over to see where you want to
line up at and everything is just what
we wanted that right there then you
simply take your toggle and slide it
into one of the connected ribs on the
bottom and lock it down now at that
point you don't need a lot of pressure
we're locked in place and ready to go
and we're going to slide down here to
the other end
and we're going to repeat that process
and again we're going to slip a toggle
clamp in there and make sure that
everything is locked down and ready to
go just like that
so there's our setup now we're going to
make that cut half the thickness of our
board and since this is a fairly thin
board to start off with we'll just go
ahead and make that adjustment in one
pass obviously you want to use what ever
the router tells you to do as far as the
depth of cut in the router bit
manufacturer and here we go
and just that easily we're able to come
in there and with that kind of control
cut 1/4 inch in this case rabbit and
from setup to completion so count along
so if you want to make it easier do it
the tree track way Thanks okay now once
we have got the rabbit cut on the
backside our next step would be to cut a
dado cross grain with a bigger bit so
what we're going to do is we're going to
swap out to a bigger bit here and when
you do that you're going to enlarge the
hole where the router bit goes through
the plate and that's perfectly okay
you're then going to use your notches
let's say that we're going to put a half
inch piece through here you're going to
take your notches and you're going to
line them up in this to the center of
those dedos now one of the sweetest
things about doing a router with plywood
shelving and datas for plywood shelving
is that plywood is a 64th of an inch
under sized and it's a real bear to set
a set of data blades up on a table saw
for that you can buy router bits that
are designed specifically to do a half
inch or a quarter or a three-eighths
inch or 3/4 inch dado for plywood so
take advantage of those and your life
will just be a whole lot simpler what I
like to do half inch half inch lumber
and then face it off with a 3/4 inch
solid piece